---
templateKey: blog-post
title: 'test #4'
date: 2018-12-31T20:43:40.753Z
description: >-
  Surprisingly, there is a very vocal faction of the design community that wants
  to see filler text banished to the original sources from whence it came.
  Perhaps not surprisingly, in an era of endless quibbling, there is an equally
  vocal contingent of designers leaping to defend the use of the time-honored
  tradition of greeking. 
tags:
  - banna
---
The argument in favor of using filler text goes something like this: If you use real content in the design process, anytime you reach a review point you’ll end up reviewing and negotiating the content itself and not the design. This will just slow down the design process. Design first, with real content in mind (of course!), but don’t drop in the real content until the design is well on its way. Using filler text avoids the inevitable argumentation that accompanies the use of real content in the design process. Those opposed to using filler text of any sort counter by saying: The ultimate purpose of any digital product, whether a website, app, or HTML email, is to showcase real content, not to showcase great design. You can’t get a true sense for how your content plays with your design unless you use the real thing! Let’s Just Agree to Disagree Before things get too heated, let us jump in and say that both sides make valid points. Using real content during design can distract designers and design review teams alike away from the design, and insisting on always using publication-ready content can be a real drag on the design process. On the other hand, if you use poorly formatted filler text you may get a completely false sense of how your design will interact with real content. We propose a compromise: Only use filler text that has been edited for length and format to match the characteristics of real content as closely as possible, and use real content where possible, and where it doesn’t create too much distraction. Relax and do whatever fits with your design process. Don’t set a lot of restrictive hard-and-fast rules. Use filler text where it helps your design process, but use real content if you’ve got it, as long as it doesn’t distract and slow down your design process. Design is an evolutionary process, and filler text is just one tool in your progress-pushing arsenal. Use it where it makes sense to use it, and pull it once the natural process indicates that it’s time to roll out a descendant built with real content. Share 3 Reddit Share Tweet 3 SHARES ABOUT US Placeholder.com is a free image placeholder service for web designers, serving 1+ billion images per month. You can specify image size & format (.GIF, .JPG, .PNG), background color & text color, as well as the text. Learn how and be sure to follow the golden rules.



C/O https://placeholder.com/text/
